Improve certificate related documentation (#2585)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/operate/security/add_self_signed_trusted.md

---
title: Cloud Authentication
tags: [Operate, Security]
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Cloud Authentication

When thin-edge connects a cloud, the cloud endpoint is authenticated using X.509 certificates.
For that to work, the signing certificate of the cloud certificate must be trusted by the device.
Usually, these certificates are stored in `/etc/ssl/certs` and nothing specific has to done on the device.

A specific configuration will be required only for cloud endpoints which CA is not trusted by the device OS default setting.

## Configuration

> Several `tedge config` settings are used by thin-edge to locate the signing certificate of the cloud end-point. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several `tedge config` settings are used by thin-edge to locate the signing certificate of the cloud endpoint. 
```

Author: fixed

- `c8y.root_cert_path`  The path where Cumulocity IoT root certificate(s) are stored (MQTT)
- `c8y.proxy.ca_path`  The path where Cumulocity IoT root certificate(s) are stored (HTTP)
- `aws.root_cert_path`  The path where AWS IoT root certificate(s) are stored (MQTT).
- `az.root_cert_path`  The path where Azure IoT root certificate(s) are stored (MQTT).

All these paths can point to a directory where the trusted certificates are stored
as well as directly to file containing the certificate of the authority signing the cloud endpoint certificate.

> Per default, all these paths are set to the system default:  `/etc/ssl/certs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Per default, all these paths are set to the system default:  `/etc/ssl/certs`.
```

Author: fixed

## Adding a Root Certificate

If the server you are trying to connect `thin-edge.io` to is presenting a certificate with a root that is not currently trusted,
then you can add the server's root certificate to the list of trusted root certificates.
For the most part the store will be filled with certificates from your TLS/SSL provider,
but if this is not the case you may need to update your local certificate store.

:::note

> This is notably required to connect Cumulocity IoT Edge, as that this distribution of Cumulocity use self-signed certificates.

Reviewer: It will be better to include what "this is" in the note, so that the note makes sense even without reading the sentence above it (and to avoid losing the context if the note gets moved around).

Author: Added
